Explain controller decoration (#546)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/modules/concepts/controllers/admin-controllers/override-decorate-controller.md

---
title: Override or decorate a Core controller
---

# Override or decorate a Core controller

{{< minver v="1.7.7" title="true" >}}

If you want to extend the behavior of a Back Office page in PrestaShop, you have multiple options.

Most of standard extension needs can be fulfilled using one [hook][hooks].

> If there is no hook available for your need, and you only need to modify the display of the page, you might want to [override the template][template-override].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no hook available for your need, and you only need to modify the visual appearance of the page, you might want to [override a template][template-override].
```

> But sometimes you want to modify the page deeper. You need to modify the controller behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But sometimes you want to modify the page deeper. In this case, you need to modify the controller behavior.
```

> But sometimes you want to modify the page deeper. In this case, you need to modify the controller behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But sometimes you want to modify the page in a deeper way. In this case, you need to modify the controller's behavior.
```

If the Back Office page you want to modify is powered by Symfony, you have 3 options:

> - remap the route to target a new Controller you create
> - override the existing Core controller
> - decorate the existing Core controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remap the route to target a new Controller you create
- Override the existing Core controller
- Decorate the existing Core controller
```

> ## Remap the routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remap the route
```

> In Symfony, [routes](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/routing.html) such as `/sell/catalog/orders` are mapped to controllers by YAML configuration files such as this one:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Symfony, [routes](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/routing.html) such as `/sell/orders/orders` are mapped to controllers by YAML configuration files such as this one:
```

```yaml

> admin_orders_index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# src/PrestaShopBundle/Resources/config/routing/admin/sell/orders/orders.yml
admin_orders_index:
```

  path: /sell/orders/orders/
  methods: [GET]
  defaults:
    _controller: PrestaShopBundle:Admin/Sell/Order/Order:index
    _legacy_controller: AdminOrders
    _legacy_link: AdminOrders
```

In your module, you have the possibility to replace this configuration item by your own.

> So for example if you want that people browsing the Back Office on URL `/sell/orders/orders/` hit your own controller `MyModule\Controller\DemoController`, you can do this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So for example, if you want that people browsing the Back Office on URL `/sell/orders/orders/` to hit your own controller `MyModule\Controller\DemoController` instead of the Core's, you can do this:
```

```yaml
# modules/your-module/config/routes.yml
admin_orders_index:

>     path: /demo/orders

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be the same route? Otherwise it will only reroute internal links
```suggestion
    path: /sell/orders/orders/
```

Author: Yes, I wanted to make clear people _do not have to keep the same route_ and so _they are given an extra level of freedom_

However indeed it means external links will return HTTP 404 🤔 

I will add a tip instead

Author: Actually module routes are prefixed with `/modules` so we cannot have the exact same path as before when re-routing a Symfony route

Needs to be explored and fixed ... outside of the scope of this PR 😭

    methods: [GET]
    defaults:
      _controller: 'MyModule\Controller\DemoController::demoAction'
```

{{% notice warning %}}

> Keep the items `_legacy_controller` and `_legacy_link` as they are necessary to enable matching with legacy URL `index.php?controller=AdminOrders` and modern URL `/sell/orders/orders/`

Reviewer: @matks is this right?

```suggestion
Keep the items `_legacy_controller` and `_legacy_link` if you want to reroute internal links and legacy URLs like `index.php?controller=AdminOrders` as well.
```

Author: `_legacy_controller` is also needed for security as most of our controllers use the following way of securing controller actions:
```
 * @AdminSecurity("is_granted('read', request.get('_legacy_controller'))")
```

I will make this clear

{{% /notice %}}

Thanks to this, whenever an HTTP request is matched to the route `admin_orders_index`, then your controller `demoAction()` will be executed.

All module routes are prefixed with `modules`, which is why the URL of this remapped route is `modules/demo/orders`.

{{% notice tip %}}
Routing is computed and cached by Symfony. You will probably need to clear this cache for Symfony to acknowledge your updated routing.

> You can do it by using `php bin/console cache:clear`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can do it by using `php bin/console cache:clear`.
```

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip %}}

> if you have trouble writing the right routing configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:router`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have trouble writing the right routing configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:router`.
```

{{% /notice %}}

## Override the controller

> Since 1.7.7, PrestaShop Back Office controllers are registered as services, and services can be [overridden][override-services].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since 1.7.7, PrestaShop Back Office controllers are registered as services, and like all public services, they can be [overridden][override-services] by modules.
```

For example, the controller responsible for the page "Improve > Design > CMS Pages" is registered with service ID `PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController`.

With the following configuration item, we can override this configuration to make it target our custom module
```yaml
# modules/your-module/config/services.yml
  'PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController':
    class: MyModule\Controller\DemoController

```

Thanks to this, whenever Symfony forwards a request to the Core controller `PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController` it will be forwarded to `DemoController` instead.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{% notice warning %}}
**This method is not recommended** unless you intend to rewrite the whole controller. In addition, if the implementation is updated in later versions of PrestaShop, your override will ignore these updates, which might create bugs.
{{% /notice %}}
```

{{% notice tip %}}
if you have trouble writing the right service configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:container`. It can also be helpful to find the service ID of the controller.
{{% /notice %}}

## Decorate the controller

> However overriding a controller or a service is usually not recommanded, because this means you completely rewrite its behavior. If the implementation is updated in later versions of PrestaShop, your override will ignore these updates, which might create bugs.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> It is better to use [decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html) which keeps the behavior of the decorated controller while allowing you to extend its behavior by modiying received inputs and outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is better to use [decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html) which keeps the behavior of the decorated controller while allowing you to extend its behavior by modifying received inputs and outputs.
```

> It is better to use [decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html) which keeps the behavior of the decorated controller while allowing you to extend its behavior by modiying received inputs and outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of replacing the whole controller, we recommend _extending_ its behavior using [service decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html). By implementing the [decorator pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/decorator), you can keep most or all of the original behavior of the decorated controller, and only customize the parts you want.

{{% notice note %}}
While you could achieve a similar end with an override (by making your controller extend the original one), the composition pattern provides a greater degree of freedom, while leaving all complexity of initialization and dependency management to the service container.
{{% /notice %}}
```

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;

class DemoController extends FrameworkBundleAdminController
{
    /**
     * @var CmsPageController
     */
    private $decoratedController;

    public function __construct(CmsPageController $decoratedController)
    {
        $this->decoratedController = $decoratedController;
    }

    public function indexAction(CmsPageCategoryFilters $categoryFilters, CmsPageFilters $cmsFilters, Request $request)
    {
        return $this->decoratedController->indexAction($categoryFilters, $cmsFilters, $request);
    }
}
```
In this example I do nothing else than returning the exact output from the decorated controller.
However I could modify the input request or I could modify the output given by decorated controller before returning it. Example:
```php
    public function indexAction(CmsPageCategoryFilters $categoryFilters, CmsPageFilters $cmsFilters, Request $request)
    {
        $output = $this->decoratedController->indexAction($categoryFilters, $cmsFilters, $request);

        $myService = $this->getMyPaymentService();
        $output = $this->injectMyData($myService, $output);

        return $output;
    }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: May be could talk about behavior when two or more controllers decorate a controller ?

Author: You're sure about it 😅 ? Some people are still not confortable with Symfony concepts like decoration, so decoration on top of decoration is next level ...

<img src="https://sayingimages.com/wp-content/uploads/inception-memes.jpg">

Reviewer 2: But if two controllers from two modules decorate the same controller, what is the behavior ? May be just to explain

Author: Can it be done outside the scope of this PR ? It's a big topic

> 

Reviewer: There's a missing `__call()` function to account for other actions that wouldn't have been decorated by the controller.

Author: Cannot be done. When I insert the `__call()` I have multiple symfony event listeners throwing ReflectionException

Needs to be explored and fixed ... outside of the scope of this PR 😭

---
title: Override or decorate a Core controller
---

# Override or decorate a Core controller

{{< minver v="1.7.7" title="true" >}}

If you want to extend the behavior of a Back Office page in PrestaShop, you have multiple options.

Most of standard extension needs can be fulfilled using one [hook][hooks].

If there is no hook available for your need, and you only need to modify the visual appearance of the page, you might want to [override a template][template-override].

But sometimes you want to modify the page in a deeper way. In this case, you need to modify the controller's behavior.

If the Back Office page you want to modify is powered by Symfony, you have 3 options:

> - Remap the route to target a new Controller you create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remap the route to target a new Controller you created
```

- Override the existing Core controller
- Decorate the existing Core controller

## Remap the route

In Symfony, [routes](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/routing.html) such as `/sell/orders/orders` are mapped to controllers by YAML configuration files such as this one:
```yaml
# src/PrestaShopBundle/Resources/config/routing/admin/sell/orders/orders.yml
admin_orders_index:
  path: /sell/orders/orders/
  methods: [GET]
  defaults:
    _controller: PrestaShopBundle:Admin/Sell/Order/Order:index
    _legacy_controller: AdminOrders
    _legacy_link: AdminOrders
```

In your module, you have the possibility to replace this configuration item by your own.

So for example, if you want that people browsing the Back Office on URL `/sell/orders/orders/` to hit your own controller `MyModule\Controller\DemoController` instead of the Core's, you can do this:
```yaml
# modules/your-module/config/routes.yml
admin_orders_index:
    path: /sell/orders/orders/
    methods: [GET]
    defaults:
      _controller: 'MyModule\Controller\DemoController::demoAction'
```

{{% notice tip %}}

> In the above example, the `path` has not been changed however you can change it to whatever you want like `/demo/orders` ! This however will re-route internal links but external or hardcoded links will keep targeting the old path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the `path` has not been changed, but you can change it to whatever you want (eg. `/demo/orders`). However, keep in mind that while this will re-route internal links, external or hardcoded links will keep targeting the old path.
```

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}

> Keep the item `_legacy_controller` if your controller relies on it to configure a [AdminSecurity annotation](/1.7/development/architecture/migration-guide/controller-routing/#access-rules-convention) such as `@AdminSecurity("is_granted('read', request.get('_legacy_controller'))")`
> {{% /notice %}}
> 
> {{% notice warning %}}
> Keep the items `_legacy_controller` and `_legacy_link` if you want to reroute internal links and legacy URLs like `index.php?controller=AdminOrders` as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep the item `_legacy_controller` if your controller relies on it to configure a [AdminSecurity annotation](/1.7/development/architecture/migration-guide/controller-routing/#access-rules-convention) such as `@AdminSecurity("is_granted('read', request.get('_legacy_controller'))")`

Keep the items `_legacy_controller` and `_legacy_link` if you want to reroute internal links and legacy URLs like `index.php?controller=AdminOrders` as well.
```

{{% /notice %}}

Thanks to this, whenever an HTTP request is matched to the route `admin_orders_index`, then your controller `demoAction()` will be executed.

All module routes are prefixed with `modules`, which is why the URL of this remapped route is `modules/demo/orders`.

{{% notice tip %}}

> Routing is computed and cached by Symfony. You will probably need to clear this cache for Symfony to acknowledge your updated routing.
> You can do it by using `php bin/console cache:clear`.
> {{% /notice %}}
> 
> {{% notice tip %}}
> if you have trouble writing the right routing configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:router`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing is computed and cached by Symfony. You will need to clear this cache for Symfony to acknowledge your updated routing.
You can do it by using `php bin/console cache:clear`.

If you have trouble writing the right routing configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:router`.
```

{{% /notice %}}

## Override the controller

Since 1.7.7, PrestaShop Back Office controllers are registered as services, and like all public services, they can be [overridden][override-services] by modules.

For example, the controller responsible for the page "Improve > Design > CMS Pages" is registered with service ID `PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController`.

> With the following configuration item, we can override this configuration to make it target our custom module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the following configuration item, we can override this configuration to make it target our custom module:
```

```yaml
# modules/your-module/config/services.yml
  'PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController':
    class: MyModule\Controller\DemoController

```

Thanks to this, whenever Symfony forwards a request to the Core controller `PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController` it will be forwarded to `DemoController` instead.

{{% notice warning %}}
**This method is not recommended** unless you intend to rewrite the whole controller. In addition, if the implementation is updated in later versions of PrestaShop, your override will ignore these updates, which might create bugs.
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip %}}

> if you have trouble writing the right service configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:container`. It can also be helpful to find the service ID of the controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have trouble writing the right service configuration for your controller, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:container`. It can also be helpful to find the service ID of the controller.
```

{{% /notice %}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Decorate the controller

```

Instead of replacing the whole controller, we recommend _extending_ its behavior using [service decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html). By implementing the [decorator pattern](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/decorator), you can keep most or all of the original behavior of the decorated controller, and only customize the parts you want.

{{% notice note %}}
While you could achieve a similar end with an override (by making your controller extend the original one), the composition pattern provides a greater degree of freedom, while leaving all complexity of initialization and dependency management to the service container.
{{% /notice %}}

> ## Decorate the controller
> 
> It is better to use [decoration](https://symfony.com/doc/3.4/service_container/service_decoration.html) which keeps the behavior of the decorated controller while allowing you to extend its behavior by modifying received inputs and outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```php
<?php

namespace MyModule\Controller;

use PrestaShop\PrestaShop\Core\Search\Filters\CmsPageCategoryFilters;
use PrestaShop\PrestaShop\Core\Search\Filters\CmsPageFilters;
use PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\FrameworkBundleAdminController;
use PrestaShopBundle\Controller\Admin\Improve\Design\CmsPageController;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;

class DemoController extends FrameworkBundleAdminController
{
    /**
     * @var CmsPageController
     */
    private $decoratedController;

    public function __construct(CmsPageController $decoratedController)
    {
        $this->decoratedController = $decoratedController;
    }

    public function indexAction(CmsPageCategoryFilters $categoryFilters, CmsPageFilters $cmsFilters, Request $request)
    {
        return $this->decoratedController->indexAction($categoryFilters, $cmsFilters, $request);
    }
}
```

> In this example I do nothing else than returning the exact output from the decorated controller.
> However I could modify the input request or I could modify the output given by decorated controller before returning it. Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this example we do nothing more than returning the exact output from the decorated controller.
However we could modify the input request or the output given by decorated controller before returning it. Example:

```

```php
    public function indexAction(CmsPageCategoryFilters $categoryFilters, CmsPageFilters $cmsFilters, Request $request)
    {
        $output = $this->decoratedController->indexAction($categoryFilters, $cmsFilters, $request);

        $myService = $this->getMyPaymentService();
        $output = $this->injectMyData($myService, $output);

        return $output;
    }
```

{{% notice tip %}}

> if you have trouble writing the right service configuration for your decoration, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:container`. It can also be helpful to find the service ID of the controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have trouble writing the right service configuration for your decoration, you can use Symfony debugger to dump the routes with `php bin/console debug:container`. It can also be helpful to find the service ID of the controller.
```
